---
layout: post
title: Throw up in the Co-op
image: http://www.theskyeguide.com/images/stories/Newsite0905/kinloch%20lodge.jpg
date: 2018-8-24 19:00 +0100
permalink: 'throw-up-in-the-coop'
---

Apologies for the lack of content so far. This is harder than I thought...

Whilst writing about some of the extraordinary places that I have visited, I began thinking about how I can't let my heart rule my head when I think back and reminisce.

Despite being a massive fan of some of the chefs and restaurants on our tour, I wanted to review them accurately and without any preconceived hero worship.

I want to take my time and describe every minute detail but I realise that I need to give you some content.

Below is a letter I wrote to Kinloch Lodge on the Isle of Skye. We visited as part of my 32nd Birthday celebrations and I couldn't wait to eat there. What transpired is documented below. I still await a response.

Brace yourself

> Dear Lady Claire Macdonald,
>
I felt it appropriate to write to you with regards to my recent dining experience at Kinloch Lodge.
>
My girlfriend and I love food and are avid restaurant goers. When we can we try to visit as many of the top Michelin Star rated restaurants in the UK. It was with great excitement then that we booked a table at your beautiful lodge, in our homeland, for my Birthday on Saturday the 6th of December 2014.
>
Upon arrival, the lodge looked fantastic. It was beautifully lit and the smell of smoke in the air only alluded to the roaring fire that would await us once we had ventured inside. Unfortunately, it was after we did so that our evening deteriorated.
>
We were met by a young antipodean man who was very pleasant and who explained both menus, despite the binding of one menu flying across the table at us. He asked if we would like a drink and because I was driving, I opted for water. A second man appeared from behind the bar and said: “It doesn’t matter about the new drink drive laws as because you’re eating food, the alcohol will dissipate over a three hour period”. I opted to think for my 32-year-old self and stuck with my water choice.
>
When we visit nice restaurants we like to pair wines with the food, we’re not wine connoisseurs by any means but we think we know what goes well and tastes nice. We asked if it would be possible for the staff to select a different glass of wine for each course for my girlfriend. “That’s going to be difficult” was the response we kept receiving. “We could do a half bottle for the first two courses instead, erm, eh, well, oh, it’s going to be so difficult to do!” In my experience of Michelin Star rated restaurants I’ve been to around the World, ‘nothing is difficult’. We finally convinced the man to match small glasses of wine with each course. We received our amuse bouche and these were very nice.
>
After half an hour or so we were informed that our table in the dining room was ready and we headed through. The room was beautiful, grand portraits on the wall set of the fine dining atmosphere to a tee. We received bread, butter (I liked the anchovy butter which our server was left aghast at) and water which contained cucumber; a nice touch or so I thought (more on the water later). We then received our first course, a curried butternut soup which was very tasty if not mind-blowing. My girlfriend received her first wine, a sherry which the sommelier provided a brief explanation on.
>
Our second course arrived, sea bass with a seafood mousse. Again this was ok. It felt out of place, with no real wow factor and was not what we had expected. The worst part was the huge piece of bone/cartilage that we both found in the centre of the fish. Again, from my experience, issues like this are taken with the utmost seriousness and chefs of the calibre of Marcello would be devastated at the thought of this reaching the guest. However, our server, a young antipodean girl didn’t seem that concerned. She simply said that she would mention it to the chef. She didn’t apologise and she didn’t appear to think like us; that this should not happen at a Michelin Starred restaurant. The sommelier placed the glass of wine down on the table and walked away, no explanation, no indication of what type of wine, nothing.
>
The third course soon arrived, Marcello’s signature dish, scallop with peanut sauce. It was this dish that I was looking forward to the most. Unfortunately, it didn’t deliver. The peanuts massively overpowered the seafood and all I could taste was an averagely seasoned satay sauce. I’ve had better in my local Chinese takeaway. The “sommelier” placed the next glass of wine down. Before he gave an explanation my girlfriend asked if the previous wine was a Chardonnay (It’s pretty obvious it was but she wanted a bit of an explanation about where the wine came from, the usual things you come to expect from a Michelin Starred restaurant.) The man seemed to take offence to this and uttered the words “Oh so you know it was a Chardonnay, maybe I won’t tell you what the next one is”. We laughed and thought he was joking but true to his word, he didn’t, he awkwardly stood at the table for a few seconds and then wandered off.
>
Next, it was on to the main courses and my girlfriend and I opted to get one of each, a cod and a venison. My venison arrived, the smallest portion of meat, potato and apple sat next to three pieces of chorizo sausage. I love venison, I love chorizo but the combination here did not work. It’s pretty common knowledge that chorizo is a strong flavour and it simply destroyed the venison. All we could taste in every mouthful was spicy sausage. The cod was no better, bland and it tasted of oily, greasy fish and chip shop fare. Michelin Star restaurants are often accused of small portion sizes but we’ve never found this to be true of any of the restaurants we have visited. Kinloch Lodge is the exception, every plate was very small. Again the sommelier couldn’t wait to get away from the table after practically throwing the wine at us.
>
Next was dessert, a passion fruit pannacotta. This was ok, again nothing fantastic, again very small. An explanation was given for the wine accompanied but that’s only because a different server brought it to the table.
>
Finally, we opted to have the cheeseboard as an additional course (we were still hungry) and this contained as you would expect, some very nice cheeses. The only thing we were struck by here was our server’s lack of selling skills. “Oh, I don’t like that one, nor that one. That one’s really smelly.” Hardly the way to sell cheese to someone who’s maybe trying it for the first time at a supposed food loving lodge. We opted not to receive a glass of port with this course.
>
On finishing our cheese another table were just ordering their own. They asked if they could have it in the bar. After they retired, we quickly worked out that there was no longer any room in the bar for us to have our petit fours. We waited and we waited and we waited some more for our server to eventually pay us some attention and ask if we wanted to sit in the front room to consume them, we quickly agreed.
>
On arrival in the front room, we found a tray of tea and coffee and half-eaten accompaniments. They had clearly not been cleared from the previous occupants. We sat and waited and eventually a server came through to see if we were “ok”. He noticed the tray and asked, “Were these yours?” We replied that no, they had been sitting there when we came through. He apologised and brought through our own. We ate them, the chocolate/blackberry truffle was delicious, got the bill and made a sharp exit.
>
Before I come to the worst part of the whole dining experience I wanted to express some observations.
>
There was zero authority about any staff we encountered. We had no idea who was in charge in the dining room.
No member of staff stayed in the dining room so they could monitor and anticipate the needs of their guests.
The staff we met acted like they were on a gap year who came to Scotland, visited the Isle of Skye and needed to find a job before they ran out of money.
There was no consistency. Some members of staff looked smart with their shirts tucked in and others didn’t. It left a very messy feel.
>
Now onto the worst part:
>
As we left the lodge, my girlfriend visited the toilet. When she returned she remarked that she thought someone hadn’t flushed. However, after running the tap she found that the water ran brown. No big deal we thought.
>
On our drive back to Portree, I commented to my girlfriend that I really didn’t feel very well after half an hour or so. I asked if we could raise the heating in the car as I felt very cold. She mentioned that it was at it's maximum and that the car was very hot. It was at this point that she noticed the sweat pouring down my face and literally dripping off my chin. My stomach was now doubling up and I was in extreme pain. I managed to drive to the hotel, get out and sprint to the toilet in our room, where for the next nine hours I lay, vomiting. I’ve never experienced such stomach pain. I’ve no idea if this was caused by the water I drank or poorly prepared seafood. What we did note was that on one of the dishes only 3 mussel shells lay but 4 mussels could be found.
>
The vomiting carried on through the night and the next day I used the only energy I could muster to drag myself to the car.
>
I sat in the Cooperative car park with a bucket being sick, pouring over the thought of a six-hour drive back to Central Scotland. I can tell you that it was indeed one of the lowest points of my life.
>
It is only now, 6 days on and multiple missed days of work that I have been able to summon the energy to write this letter.
>
Not only has Kinloch Lodge been thee worst dining experience of our lives, Michelin or not, it has had me at one of my lowest points personally.
>
I have not contacted environmental health as I believe I am inclined to but wanted to contact you personally, in order to let you respond, before I took any further action.
>
Yours sincerely,
>
Richard Lindsay
